ANS.1.
Python was developed by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991. Guido van Rossum is a Dutch computer programmer who created Python as a hobby project, with the goal of creating a high-level, easy-to-use programming language that would be suitable for a wide range of tasks. Python has since become one of the most popular and widely used programming languages, and Guido van Rossum has continued to play an active role in its development and evolution.
Python is now maintained by a large community of developers, and new features and improvements are added to the language on a regular basis. Despite its popularity and widespread use, Python remains true to its original design principles, and is widely regarded as a "batteries included" language that makes it easy for programmers to get things done quickly and efficiently. 


ANS.2. Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including:

Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
Imperative Programming
Functional Programming
Procedural Programming
Scripting
It is known for its simplicity, readability and versatility, making it a popular choice for a wide range of applications such as web development, scientific computing, data analysis, artificial intelligence, and more.


ANS.3.Yes, Python is case sensitive when it comes to dealing with identifiers such as variables, function names, and class names.
For example, the names "Variable1" and "variable1" are treated as different names in Python. This means that a variable name with a capital letter is not the same as the same name with a lowercase letter.



ANS.4.The correct file extension for a Python source code file is ".py". This is the standard file extension used by most Python developers and the recommended one by the Python community.
Using this extension helps identify the file as a Python script, making it easier to recognize and open with the correct program.



ANS.5.Python is an interpreted language. This means that the source code is executed line by line, rather than being compiled into machine code before execution.
The Python interpreter reads the source code, parses it, and executes it immediately. This makes the development and testing process faster, as changes can be made and immediately executed without the need for a separate compilation step.




ANS.6.In Python, there are a few blocks of code used to define different structures and statements:

Function definition block - defined using the "def" keyword and used to define a reusable block of code.
Class definition block - defined using the "class" keyword and used to define a blueprint for creating objects.
If-elif-else block - used to specify a group of statements to be executed based on a condition.
For loop block - used to execute a set of statements for a specified number of times.



ANS.7. In Python, the hash symbol (#) is used to give a single line of comment.

For example: # This is a single line comment in Python
Anything following the hash symbol on a line is ignored by the interpreter and serves as a way for the programmer to add notes or explanations to the code. Single line comments are useful for adding brief explanations of code or disabling a line of code temporarily.



ANS.8.In Python, there are a few ways to find the version of Python that WE are currently working with:

sys.version - This method returns a string that contains information about the Python version, including the release number, build number, and build date. For example: import sys; print(sys.version)

sys.version_info - This method returns a named tuple containing information about the Python version. For example: import sys; print(sys.version_info)

platform.python_version() - This method returns a string that contains the version of Python that the script is running under. For example: import platform; print(platform.python_version())

All three methods will give US information about the version of Python WE are currently working with, but the first two methods provide more detailed information about the version.




ANS.9.In Python, anonymous functions, also known as lambda functions, can be created at runtime using the lambda keyword.
A lambda function is a small, anonymous function that can take any number of arguments and return a single value. The syntax for a lambda function is as follows:
lambda arguments: expression
For example:

double = lambda x: x * 2
result = double(5)
print(result) # Output: 10

Lambda functions are often used in situations where a function is required for a short period of time, such as when passing a function as an argument to a higher-order function or for defining a function inside another function.




ANS.10.PIP stands for "Pip Installs Packages" and is the package manager for Python. It is used to install and manage packages, or libraries, that are not included in the standard Python distribution.

With PIP, we can install packages from the Python Package Index (PyPI) or from local or remote sources. It makes it easy to install and manage packages for our projects, and ensures that we have access to the latest versions of packages and their dependencies.



ANS.11.Here are a few built-in functions in Python:

print(): used to display output on the console.
len(): returns the length of an object.
sum(): returns the sum of elements in an iterable.
sorted(): returns a sorted list from an iterable.
str(): returns a string representation of an object.
int(): returns an integer representation of an object.
float(): returns a floating-point representation of an object.
list(): returns a list representation of an object.
tuple(): returns a tuple representation of an object.




ANS.12.In Python, there is no specific maximum length for an identifier (variable name, function name, class name, etc.). However, there are some constraints and guidelines that are followed to make the code readable and maintainable.
According to PEP 8, the style guide for Python code, the recommended maximum length for an identifier is 79 characters. This is because the code is typically read on screens that have limited width, and having long identifier names can make the code hard to read.
That being said, there is no technical limitation on the length of an identifier in Python, so WE could have an identifier name that is several hundred characters long if WE wanted to. However, this is generally discouraged for readability and maintainability reasons.





ANS.13.There are several benefits of using Python as a programming language, some of which are:

Easy to learn: Python has a simple, intuitive syntax that is easy to learn, even for those with no prior programming experience.

Versatile: Python can be used for a wide range of tasks, including web development, scientific computing, data analysis, artificial intelligence, and more.

Large community and extensive libraries: Python has a large and active community of users and developers, who have created a large number of libraries for various tasks. This makes it easier to find help, resources, and pre-built solutions for common problems.

High-level language: Python is a high-level language, which means it abstracts away many of the lower-level details of programming, making it easier to write code and focus on the problem you're trying to solve.

Cross-platform: Python can run on a variety of operating systems, including Windows, Mac, and Linux, making it a great choice for cross-platform development.

Dynamic typing: Python uses dynamic typing, which allows for greater flexibility and faster development, as you don't need to specify the type of a variable before using it.

Interoperability: Python can be easily integrated with other programming languages and can be used to automate repetitive tasks in other programs, making it a great choice for scripting and glue code.

These are just a few of the many benefits of using Python. It's a versatile, flexible, and powerful language that is well suited to a wide range of tasks, making it a great choice for many different types of projects.





ANS.14.In Python, memory management is handled automatically by the Python interpreter, which uses a memory manager to manage memory allocation and deallocation. The memory manager is responsible for allocating memory for new objects and freeing memory that is no longer being used.
Python uses a reference counting mechanism to keep track of the number of references to an object in memory. When an object's reference count drops to zero, the memory manager automatically deallocates the memory used by that object. In addition, Python uses a garbage collector to identify and remove objects that are no longer accessible or needed, even if they still have a non-zero reference count.
One of the key benefits of Python's memory management system is that it simplifies the process of managing memory and frees the programmer from having to worry about manual memory management. However, it's important to understand that Python's memory management system is not perfect, and there are some edge cases where manual memory management or memory optimization may be necessary.
Overall, Python's memory management system is designed to make it easy for programmers to write code without having to worry about memory management, while also providing enough control and customization to handle more complex memory management scenarios.






ANS.15.Here is how WE can install Python in Windows and set the path variables:

Download the latest version of Python from the official Python website (https://www.python.org/downloads/).

Run the Python installation executable file that WE just downloaded. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation process. Make sure to select the option to add Python to the PATH environment variable during the installation process.

Once the installation is complete, open the Command Prompt.

Type python and press Enter. This will start the Python interpreter and show the Python version and prompt.

To set the path variables, go to the Start menu, search for "Environment Variables" and select "Edit the system environment variables".

In the System Properties window, select the "Environment Variables" button.

Under "System Variables", scroll down and find the "Path" variable, then select it and click "Edit".

In the Edit Environment Variable window, click "New" and add the path to the Python installation directory (e.g., C:\Python37\).

Close all windows and restart the Command Prompt.

Type python and press Enter. This will start the Python interpreter, and WE should now be able to run Python commands and scripts from any directory.

By following these steps, WE should be able to install Python and set the path variables correctly in Windows.





ANS.16.Yes, indentation is required in Python. Indentation is used to delimit blocks of code, such as loops and functions, and is an important part of the syntax of the Python language. Python relies on indentation to indicate the structure of a program.
In Python, indentation is used to define a block of code, and the amount of indentation must be consistent within a block. For example, if a block of code is indented four spaces, all other lines within that block must also be indented four spaces. This makes the code more readable and helps to avoid errors caused by mismatched braces or other delimiters.
Indentation is a crucial part of the Python syntax, and it is important to follow the indentation conventions consistently to ensure that OUR code is readable, maintainable, and free of syntax errors.